Create journald tile (#9121)
DataDog/integrations-core: journald/README.md

# Agent Integration: journald

## Overview

Systemd-journald is a system service that collects and stores logging data. 

> It creates and maintains structured, indexed journals based on logging information that is received from a variety of sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It creates and maintains structured, indexed journals based on logging information from a variety of sources.
```

## Setup

### Installation

The journald check is included in the [Datadog Agent][2] package.
No additional installation is needed on your server.

### Configuration

Journal files are, by default, owned and readable by the systemd-journal system group. To start collecting your journal logs, you need to:

> 1. [Install the Agent][3] on the instance running the journal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Install the Agent][3] on the instance running the journal.
```

2. Add the `dd-agent` user to the `systemd-journal` group by running:
    ```text
     usermod -a -G systemd-journal dd-agent
    ```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Host" %}}

To configure this check for an Agent running on a host:

Edit the `journald.d/conf.yaml` file, in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your [Agent's configuration directory][4] to start collecting logs.

#### Log collection

> Collecting logs is disabled by default in the Datadog Agent, you need to enable it in `datadog.yaml` with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Collecting logs is disabled by default in the Datadog Agent, you need to enable it in the `datadog.yaml` with:
```

```yaml
logs_enabled: true
```

Then add this configuration block to your `journald.d/conf.yaml` file to start collecting your Logs:

```yaml
logs:
    - type: journald
      container_mode: true
```

> To fill `source` and `service` attributes, the Agent collects `SYSLOG_IDENTIFIER` , `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` and `_COMM`and set them to the first non empty value. In order to take advantage of the integration pipelines, Datadog recommends setting the `SyslogIdentifier` parameter in the `systemd` service file directly, or in a `systemd` service override file. Their location depends on your distribution, but you can find the location of the `systemd` service file by using the command `systemctl show -p FragmentPath <unit_name>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fill `source` and `service` attributes, the Agent collects `SYSLOG_IDENTIFIER` , `_SYSTEMD_UNIT` and `_COMM`and set them to the first non empty value. To take advantage of the integration pipelines, Datadog recommends setting the `SyslogIdentifier` parameter in the `systemd` service file directly, or in a `systemd` service override file. Their location depends on your distribution, but you can find the location of the `systemd` service file by using the command `systemctl show -p FragmentPath <unit_name>`.
```

> **Note**: With Agent 7.17+, if `container_mode` is set to `true`, the default behavior changes for logs coming from docker containers. The `source` attribute of your logs is automatically set to the corresponding short image name of the container instead of simply `docker`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: With Agent 7.17+, if `container_mode` is set to `true`, the default behavior changes for logs coming from Docker containers. The `source` attribute of your logs is automatically set to the corresponding short image name of the container instead of simply `docker`.
```

> Finally, [restart the Agent][2].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Restart the Agent][2].
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Containerized" %}}

For containerized environments, see the [Autodiscovery Integration Templates][5] for guidance on applying the parameters below.

#### Log collection

Collecting logs is disabled by default in the Datadog Agent. To enable it, see [Kubernetes log collection documentation][6].

| Parameter      | Value                                                  |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `<LOG_CONFIG>` | `{"source": "journald", "service": "<YOUR_APP_NAME>"}` |

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

#### Advanced features

##### Change journal location

By default the Agent looks for the journal at the following locations:

- `/var/log/journal`
- `/var/run/journal`

If your journal is located elsewhere, add a `path` parameter with the corresponding journal path.

##### Filter journal units

> It is possible to filter in/out specific units thanks to the following parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's possible to filter in and out specific units by using these parameters:
```
